Gemini Twitch Bot – Quick Start Guide

This guide will help you set up and run your Twitch bot with Gemini AI, including how to get the required tokens and configure the bot.

Step 1: Install Python

Download and install Python 3.13 or higher: https://www.python.org/downloads/

During installation, make sure to check "Add Python to PATH".

Step 2: Install Required Python Libraries

Open Command Prompt or PowerShell and run:

pip install requests flask flask-socketio eventlet


This installs everything your bot needs to run.

Step 3: Get a Twitch OAuth Token

Go to Twitch Token Generator
.

Log in with the Twitch account you want the bot to use.

Click “Generate Token” for chat:read and chat:edit scopes.

Copy the OAuth token. It will look something like this:

oauth:abcdefghijk123456789

Step 4: Get Your Google Gemini API Key

Go to Google Cloud Console
.

Enable the Generative AI API.

Go to API Keys → Create Key.

Copy the key. It will look something like this:

AIzaSyDXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

Step 5: Run the Bot

Open Command Prompt or PowerShell in the folder where your bot file twitch_gemini_onefile.py is located.

Run the bot:

python twitch_gemini_onefile.py


Follow the prompts:

Bot username: The Twitch username of your bot account.

Bot token: Paste the OAuth token from Step 3.

Gemini API key: Paste the API key from Step 4.

Bot personality: A short description of your bot’s personality (example: “silly old grandma”).

Auto-chat frequency: Number between 0 and 1 (0.5 means about 50% of the time it will send messages automatically).

Twitch channels: The channels the bot will join (separate multiple channels with commas).

The bot will create or update bot_config.json with these settings.

Step 6: Open the Dashboard

Once the bot is running, open a web browser.

Go to:

http://localhost:5000


From here, you can:

Change the bot’s personality on the fly.

Adjust auto-chat frequency.

Send a !say message to rewrite and post in chat.

Step 7: Use Commands in Twitch Chat

!ai <message> – Bot replies with a Gemini AI response using its memory context.

!say <message> – Bot rewrites your message in its personality and posts it in chat.

Step 8: Troubleshooting

IRC Connection Issues: Make sure you have an internet connection and the bot token is valid.

SSL Errors: Ensure Python has SSL support. On Windows, installing the latest Python version usually fixes it.

Gemini API Errors: Check your API key and make sure the Google Generative AI API is enabled.

This guide is designed for someone who is not a developer, so you should be able to copy/paste tokens and follow prompts without touching the code.